doc: Add LoRa PHY packet format (#514)
TheThingsNetwork/docs: doc/content/lorawan/lora-phy-format/_index.md

---
title: "LoRa Physical Layer Packet Format"
section: Additional Information
description: ""
weight:
---

LoRa uses two types of packet formats for data transmission: explicit and implicit. 

> In **explicit** mode, a LoRa packet includes the following elements. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In **explicit** mode, a LoRa packet includes the following elements:
```

- **Preamble** is used to synchronize the receiver with the transmitter. It MUST consist of 8 symbols for all regions as mentioned in the LoRaWAN Regional Parameters document. However, the radio transmitter will add another 4.25 symbols resulting in a final preamble length of 8 + 4.25 = 12.25 symbols.

> - **PHDR (Physical Header)** is an optional element only present in the explicit mode that contains information about,
> Payload size - indicates the size of the payload.
> Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) - indicates the presence or absence of the Payload CRC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **PHDR (Physical Header)** is an optional element only present in the explicit mode that contains information about payload size and CRC (Cyclic Redundancy Check).
```

Reviewer: If you use PHDR (Physical Header), please be consistent and use CRC (Cyclic Redundancy Check) and not Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC). This improves readability.

- **PHDR_CRC (Header CRC)** is an optional field that contains an error detecting code for correcting errors in header.

The PHDR and PHDR_CRC are encoded with the Coding Rate of 4/8.

> - **PHYPayload** contains the complete frame generated by the MAC layer. The maximum payload size varies by Data Rate (DR) and is region-specific.

Reviewer: DR (Data Rate)

- **CRC** is an optional field that contains an error detecting code for correcting errors in the payload of uplink messages.

> The PHYPayload and CRC are encoded with one of the Coding Rates (4/5, 4/6, 4/7, or 4/8). The complete frame is then sent using one of the Spreading Factors used in the LoRaWAN (SF = 7 to 12).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PHYPayload and CRC are encoded with one of the Coding Rates (4/5, 4/6, 4/7, or 4/8). The complete frame is then sent using one of the Spreading Factors (SF = 7 to 12).
```
